
6/17/25, 10:30 AM
Sports in the United States Wikipedia
WIKIPEDIA
The Free Encyclopedia
Sports in the United States
Sports in the United States are an important part of the nation's culture. Historically, the most popular sport has been baseball.
However, in more recent decades, American football has been the most popular spectator sport based on broadcast viewership
audience. Basketball has grown into the mainstream American sports scene since the 1980s, with ice hockey doing the same towards the
end of the 20th century. These sports comprise the "Big Four".
In the first half of the 20th century, boxing and collegiate football were among the most popular sports after baseball. Soccer has
emerged as the fifth most popular sport in the 21st century. Golf, tennis, and collegiate basketball are other spectator sports with
longstanding popularity. Tennis is currently considered to be the sixth most popular sport in the United States. Most recently, mixed
martial arts has been breaking records in attendance and broadcast viewership for all combat sports.
Based on revenue, the major professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada are the National Football League (NFL), Major
League Baseball (MLB), the National Basketball Association (NBA), and the National Hockey League (NHL). At $16 billion in revenue,
the NFL is the most valuable sports league in the world.
[1]
The market for professional sports in the United States is about $69 billion, roughly 50% larger than that of all of Europe, the Middle
East, and Africa combined. [2] All these leagues enjoy wide-ranging domestic media coverage and, except for Major League Soccer, all are
considered the preeminent leagues in their respective sports in the world. Although American football does not have a substantial
following in other nations, the NFL does have the highest average attendance (67,254) of any professional sports league in the world.
MLB has the second highest average attendance of any sports league in the U.S. (29,293) [3] followed by MLS, the NBA, and the NHL.
Of
these five U.S.-based leagues, all but the NFL have at least one team in Canada.
Professional teams in all major sports in the United States operate as franchises within a league, meaning that a team may move to a
different city if the team's owners believe there would be a financial benefit, but franchise moves are usually subject to some form of
league-level approval. [4] All major sports leagues use a similar type of regular-season schedule with a post-season playoff tournament.
In addition to the major league-level organizations, several sports also have professional minor leagues, active in smaller cities across
the country.
As in Canada and Australia, sports leagues in the United States do not practice promotion and relegation, unlike most sports leagues in
Europe. Another notable distinction is that most sports fans in the United States tend to follow more than one team sport, depending on
the time of year, unlike the case in many parts of the world where fans might avidly follow only one team sport such as soccer or
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sports_in_the_United_States
1/30
6/17/25, 10:30 AM
Sports in the United States Wikipedia
baseball. Thus, it is possible for a U.S. sports fan who follows multiple sports to spend
practically every single day of the year watching professional sports, since there is no
time of year when all the Big Five leagues would be off-season.
Sports are particularly associated with education in the United States, with most high
schools and universities having organized sports, and this is a unique sporting footprint
for the U.S. College sports competitions play an important role in the American sporting
culture, and college basketball and college football are more popular than professional
sports in some parts of the country. The major sanctioning body for college sports is the
National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA). Colleges collectively receive billions of
dollars from TV deals, sponsorships, and ticket sales. In 2019, the total revenue
generated by NCAA athletic departments added up to $18.9 billion.
[5]
Based on Olympic Games, World Championships, and other major competitions in
respective sports, the United States is the most successful nation in the world in baseball,
basketball, athletics, swimming, lacrosse, beach volleyball, figure skating, tennis, golf,
boxing, diving, shooting, rowing and snowboarding, and is one of the top five most
successful nations in ice hockey, wrestling, gymnastics, volleyball, speed skating, alpine
skiing, bobsleigh, equestrian, sailing, cycling, weightlifting and archery, among others.
This makes the United States the most successful sports nation in the world. The United
States has been referred to by some as the Hegemon of World Sports.
[6]7][8][9][1o][11][12]
The United States has placed first in the Summer Olympic medal table 19 times out of 30
Summer Olympics and 29 appearances. Unlike most other nations, the United States
government does not provide funding for sports nor for the United States Olympic &
Paralympic Committee. The United States Olympic contingent is additionally the only
Olympic contingent in the world to receive no government funding; neither training and
development costs nor prize money are provided by the U.S. national
government.
[13][14][15][16][17]
From top, left to right: Michael Jordan as part of
the U.S. men's basketbal team, U.S. baseball
History
team, Danica Patrick driving at the IndyCar
Series, Sydney McLaughlin, American football
American football, indoor American football, baseball, softball, and indoor soccer
Army-Navy Game, the skateboarder Tony Hawk,
evolved out of older British (Rugby football, British baseball, Rounders, and association
the 1980 Miracle on Ice hockey game, Christian
football) sports.
[18]
However, basketball, volleyball, beach volleyball, racquetball,
Pulisic as part of the United States men's soccer
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sports_in_the_United_States
2/30
6/17/25, 10:30 AM
Sports in the United States Wikipedia
pickleball, skateboarding, snowboarding, Ultimate, wind-surfing, and Water Skiing are
team, the start of the 2015 Daytona 500, and
fully American inventions, [18] some of which have become popular in other countries
golfer Michelle Wie West.
and worldwide. [19]
Up until the American Civil War, cricket was a somewhat popular sport in the United States,
with presidents such as George Washington and Abraham Lincoln having played or watched
the
game.
[20][21] However, cricket at the time was a sport played over several days, and during the
Civil War, troops preferred to play the newly rising game of baseball, which was much shorter in
duration and did not require a special playing surface to be played.[22][23]
Olympics
A Grand entry at the 2018 Boswell FFA
American athletes have won a total of 2,764 medals (1,105 of them gold) at the Summer Olympic
Rodeo in Boswell, Oklahoma.
Games and another 330 (114 of them gold) at the Winter Olympic Games, making the United
States the most prolific medal-winning nation in the history of the Olympics. The U.S. is ranked first in the all-time medal table even if
all the incarnations of Russia and Germany are combined, leading the second-placed Russians by 430 gold and 957 total medals. These
achievements are even more impressive considering the fact that the American Olympic team remains the only in the world to receive
no government funding.[24][15][17]
The United States hosted both Summer and Winter Games in 1932, and has hosted more Games than any other country - eight times,
four times each for the Summer and Winter Games:
The 1904 Summer Olympics in St. Louis, 1932 Summer Olympics and 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles; and the 1996
Summer Olympics in Atlanta;
The 1932 Winter Olympics and 1980 Winter Olympics in Lake Placid, New York; the 1960 Winter Olympics in Squaw Valley,
California; and the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Los Angeles will host the Summer Olympics for a third time in 2028. Salt Lake City will host the Winter Olympics for a second time in
2034, marking the tenth Olympics hosted in the United States.
The United States has won the most gold and overall medals in the Summer Olympic Games, even if the medal totals of the Soviet
Union/CIS and Russia are combined, and has topped the medal table 19 times. [25] The country has won the second most gold and
overall medals in the Winter Olympic Games, behind Norway, but has topped the medal table only one time, in 1932. If all of Germany's
and Russia's incarnations are combined, the United States slips to fourth in the all-time Winter Olympic Games table.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sports_in_the_United_States
3/30
6/17/25, 10:30 AM
Sports in the United States - Wikipedia
Individual sports
Golf
Golf is one of the most popular participation sports in the United States, with approximately 24 million
people playing golf on a regular basis as of 2023. [26] Golf's origins can be traced back to 15th century
Michael Phelps celebrates after
Scotland, where players would hit a pebble around sandy dunes using a stick or primitive club. The
winning his eighth gold medal in
game has evolved over centuries into the version played today, which involves hitting a small, dimpled
the 2008 Summer Olympics
ball into each hole on a course in as few strokes as possible.
Introduced to America in the late 19th century, it quickly gained favor among the upper class. The
United States Golf Association was founded in 1894 to establish rules. Iconic courses like Augusta
National and Pebble Beach have hosted legendary tournaments.
Since the 1970s, the landscape of golf in the United States has seen significant advancements,
Francis Olympic Field of
particularly in the recognition of female players. This has been highlighted by increased support for
Washington University in St.
women's golf programs, the expansion of women's tournaments, and greater representation of female
Louis, site of the 1904 Olympic
golfers
at
all
levels
of
the
sport.
[27]
Babe Zaharias won 10 major championships and was an Olympic
Games
gold medalist. Nancy Lopez claimed 48 LPGA Tour titles, including three majors, in the 1970s and
1980s. Patty Berg, a founding member of the LPGA, won 15 majors. Juli Inkster, a two-time Solheim
Cup captain, captured seven major championships. More recently, Lexi Thompson has emerged as a top player, winning multiple LPGA
events, including a major championship.
In 2020, nearly 25 million people or around 8% of the total population of the U.S., played golf on a golf course in the United States,
according to the National Golf Foundation. [28]
Boxing
The United States became the center of professional boxing in the early 20th century. [29] The National Boxing Association was
founded
in 1921 and began to sanction title fights. One of the most iconic figures is Rocky Marciano, who remains the only heavyweight
champion to retire undefeated. Holding the World Heavyweight title from 1952 to 1956, Marciano's aggressive style and unyielding
determination made him a legend in the sport. Another prominent figure is Jack Dempsey, a heavyweight champion from 1919 to 1926,
known for his fierce, fast-paced fighting style that captivated fans and made him one of the most popular athletes of his time. Joe Louis
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sports_in_the_United_States
4/30
6/17/25, 10:30 AM
Sports in the United States Wikipedia
was an American professional boxer who competed from 1934 to 1951. He reigned as the
world heavyweight champion from 1937 to 1949, and is widely considered to be one of the
greatest heavyweight boxers of all-time. [30][31][32][33] Louis is widely regarded as the first
person of African-American descent to achieve the status of a nationwide hero within the
United States, and was also a focal point of anti-Nazi sentiment leading up to and during
World
War II. [34] Floyd Patterson, who became the youngest boxer to win the world
heavyweight title at age 21, also left a lasting impact on the sport, defending his title in the
early 1960s. Since the late 1990s, boxing has declined in popularity. [35][36][37]
Boxing in the 21st century has experienced a decline in mainstream appeal, largely due to
Jack Nicklaus is widely
Mickey Wright,
the rise of mixed martial arts (MMA) and the dominance of other major sports. The sport
regarded as the greatest
often regarded
faces several challenges, including a fragmented organizational structure, safety concerns
golfer of all time, winning a
as one of the
for athletes, and ongoing controversies surrounding matches and governance. Despite
total of 18 career major
most dominant
championships.
these issues, boxing continues to maintain a dedicated fanbase and remains a significant
players in the
history of
part of American sports culture. As of 2021, boxing participation in the United States
women's golf
reached approximately 6.7 million people, indicating a robust growth in the sport's
popularity. [38]
Women, however, were largely excluded from the professional scene for much of boxing's early history, as the sport was dominated by
men. Women made significant strides in boxing in the late 20th century, with Christy Martin leading the way in the 1990s. Known as
"The Coal Miner's Daughter." Her success opened doors for more female athletes. In the 21st century, champions like Laila Ali, the
daughter of Muhammad Ali, and Claressa Shields further elevated women's boxing
Popular team sports
Overview
The most popular team sports in the United States are American football, baseball, basketball, ice hockey, and soccer. All five of these
team sports are popular with fans, are widely watched on television, have a fully professional league, are played by millions of
Americans, enjoy varsity status at many Division I colleges, and are played in high schools throughout the country.
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sports_in_the_United_States
5/30
6/17/25, 10:30 AM
Sports in the United States Wikipedia
TV
Favorite
viewing
Major
record
Participants
NCAA DI Teams
States
Sport
spectator
professional
sport(³9)
(since
(millions)[40]
(men + women)
league
(HS)2
2010)¹
127.7
Football
41%
NFL
8.9 million
249 (249M + OW)
51
million
30.8
Basketball
9%
NBA
24.4 million
million
698 (351M + 349W)
51
40.0
Baseball
10%
MLB
11.5 million
million
589 (298M + 291W)
49
29.3
Soccer
5%
MLS
13,6 million
531 (205M + 332W)
51
million
43,6
Ice hockey
4%
NHL
3.1 million
million
102 (61M + 41W)
20
Claressa Shields,
1. TV viewing record measures the game with the most TV viewers in the U.S. since 2005 for each sport:
professional boxer and
2025 Super Bowl, [41] 2016 NBA Finals Game 7, [42] 2016 World Series Game 7, [43] 2014 FIFA World Cup
professional mixed
Final, [44] and 2010 Winter Olympics Gold medal ice hockey game. [45]
martial artist.
2. The column titled "States (HS)" represents the number of states that sponsor the sport at the high school
level. For the purpose of this table, Washington, D.C. is counted as a state. [46]
The five most popular sports teams on Instagram from the United States as of October 4, 2024:
[47][48][49][50][51]
#
Team
Sport
Followers
1
Golden State Warriors
Basketball
32.4 million
2
Los Angeles Lakers
Basketball
24.6 million
3
Inter Miami
Soccer
17.1 million
4
Cleveland Cavaliers
Basketball
16.5 million
5
Chicago Bulls
Basketball
10.1 million
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sports_in_the_United_States
6/30
6/17/25, 10:30 AM
Sports in the United States Wikipedia
American
football
Edmonton Oilerse
Vancouver Canucks
Montreal Canadiens
Vancouver Whitecaps FC
90
Ottawa Senators
Montreal Impact
Detroit Pistons
Calgary Flames
Detroit Lions
Cleveland Browns
Seattle Seahawks Pc
Seattle Mariners
Detroit Tigers
Cleveland Cavaliers
Seattle Sounders FC
Detroit Red Wings
Cleveland Indians
Toronto Raptors
Toronto Blue Jays
Portland Trail Blazers 9
Winnipeg Jetse
Chicago Bulls
Toronto Maple Leafs
New England Patriots
Toronto FC
Portland Timbers
Chicago Bears
Boston Celtics
Buffalo Bills
Chicago Cubs
Boston Red Sox
Buffalo Sabres
Chicago White Sox
Boston Bruins
Chicago Blackhawks
New England Revolution
Minnesota Timberwolves
Chicago Fire FC
New York Giants New York Red Bulls
Minnesota Vikings
Sacramento Kings
New York Jets
Minnesota Twins
New York City FC
San Francisco 49ers
Minnesota Wild
New York Knicks
Golden State Warriors
Green Bay Packers
Brooklyn Nets
Minnesota United FC
San Francisco Glants
Utah Jazz
Milwaukee Bucks
New York Mets
Oakland Athletics
Real Salt Lake OF
Milwaukee Brewers
New York Yankees
San Jose Sharks
effect
New York Rangers
San Jose Earthquakes
Denver Broncos
New York Islanders
Los Angeles Rams
Denver Nuggets
Indiana Pacers
we
Pittsburgh Steelers
Las Vegas Raiders,
Colorado Rockies
Indianapolis Colts
Pittsburgh Pirates
New Jersey Devils
Los Angeles Chargers
Kansas City Chiefs
Vegas Golden Knights
Colorado Avalanche
Cincinnati Bengals
Pittsburgh Penguins
Philadelphia Eagles
Los Angeles Clippers
Colorado Rapids
Kansas City Rovals
&
Cincinnati Reds
or
Philadelphia 76ers
Los Angeles Lakers
adidas
Sporting Kansas City
FC Cincinnati
Philadelphia Phillies
Los Angeles Dodgers
St. Louis Cardinals
Baltimore Ravens
Philadelphia Flyers
St. Louis Blues
Columbus Blue Jackets
Baltimore Orioles
Los Angeles Angels
Philadelphia Union
Columbus Crew SC
Los Angeles Kings
Washington Football Team
Anaheim Ducks
Oklahoma City Thunder
Carolina Panthers
Washington Wizards
Los Angeles FC
LA Galaxy
San Diego Padres
Memphis Grizzlies
Charlotte Homets
Washington Nationals
Phoenix Suns
Tennessee Titans
Washington Capitals
Dallas Cowboys
Carolina Hurricanes
Nashville Predators
Nashville SC
Atlanta Falcons
D.C. United
Arizona Cardinals
Dallas Mavericks
Arizona Diamondbacks
Texas Rangers
Atlanta Hawks
Dallas Stars
Atlanta Braves
Arizona Coyotes
FC Dallas
Atlanta United FC
o
@
Jacksonville Jaguars
New Orleans Saints
Orlando Magic
San Antonio Spurs
New Orleans Pelicans
Orlando City SC
Tampa Bay Buccaneers
Houston Texans
Tampa Bay Rays
Houston Rockets
Miami Heat Tampa Bay Lightning
Miami Dolphins
Houston Astros
Miami Marlins
Houston Dynamo
Florida Panthers
Inter Miami CF
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sports_in_the_United_States
7/30
6/17/25, 10:30 AM
Sports in the United States Wikipedia
Location of the franchises (teams) of the big five leagues in United States and Canada.
Football has the most participants of any sport at both high school and college levels, the vast majority of its participants being
male. [52][53] Millions watch college football throughout the fall months, and some communities, particularly in rural areas, place great
emphasis on their local high school football teams.
College football in the 20th century grew from a regional sport into a national phenomenon. In the early years (1900-1940s), the game
gained popularity with top schools like Yale and Harvard, and conferences such as the Big Ten and SEC were formed. The popularity of
college and high school football in areas such as the Southern United States (Southeastern Conference) and the Great Plains (Big 12
Conference and Big Ten Conference) stems largely from the fact that these areas historically generally did not possess markets large
enough for a professional team. [54] The first major bowl game, the Rose Bowl, was played in 1902, and the sport's popularity increased
with television broadcasts in the 1950s. From the 1950s to the 1970s, legendary coaches like Bear Bryant and Knute Rockne shaped the
game, and the integration of African American players began to break racial barriers. The 1980s and 1990s saw the rise of powerhouse
teams such as Miami and Nebraska, while the BCS system was introduced to determine the national champion. By the end of the
century, college football had become a major part of American culture, with game days and traditions uniting fans and communities
across the nation. Nonetheless, college football has a rich history in the United States, predating the NFL by decades, and fans and
alumni are generally very passionate about their teams.
The NFL has the highest average attendance (67,591) of any professional sports league in the
world and has the highest revenue 55] out of any single professional sports league. [56] The NFL
has two conferences, the AFC and the NFC. The AFC has 4 divisions (AFC East, AFC North, AFC
South, and AFC West). The NFC also has 4 divisions (NFC East, NFC North, NFC South, and
NFC West.) Each division has 4 teams, with a total of 32 teams in the NFL. [57]
The National Football League (NFL) in the 20th century underwent significant development,
transforming from a regional league to a dominant force in American sports. Established in
1920 as the American Professional Football Association (APFA), it was renamed the NFL in
1922. Early years were marked by organizational instability and competition with other football
The Dallas Cowboys playing against the
leagues. However, the 1930s saw key innovations such as the introduction of the NFL Draft and
Broncos in Super Bowl XII.
a championship game, which contributed to the league's growing popularity. The 1950s and
1960s marked a period of expansion, with television broadcasts increasing national exposure.
The creation of the Super Bowl in 1967, following the merger between the NFL and the American Football League (AFL), solidified
the
league's prominence. The 1970s saw further expansion and the rise of dominant teams like the Pittsburgh Steelers, while the 1980s
and
1990s were characterized by increased commercialization, lucrative television contracts, and the emergence of star players. By the end
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sports_in_the_United_States
8/30
6/17/25, 10:30 AM
Sports in the United States - Wikipedia
of the 20th century, the NFL had firmly established itself as the most popular sport in
the United States, with the Super Bowl becoming one of the most-watched events
globally. During the 20th century, several star players helped shape the NFL's growth
and popularity. Some of the most notable include: Red Grange, Johnny Unitas, Jim
Brown, Vince Lombardi, Joe Namath and Terry Bradshaw.
Basketball
In high school basketball, Indiana has 10 of the 12 largest high school gyms in the
United States, [59] and is famous for its basketball passion, known as Hoosier Hysteria.
The NFL's New England Patriots vs. the Pittsburgh
Steelers.
Of those Americans citing their favorite sport, basketball is ranked second (counting
amateur
levels)
behind
football.
[60]
However,
in
regards
to
revenue
the
NBA
is
ranked
third in popularity. [61] More Americans play basketball than any other team sport,
according to the National Sporting Goods Association, with over 26 million Americans playing basketball. Basketball was invented in
1891 by Canadian physical education teacher James Naismith in Springfield, Massachusetts.
The National Basketball Association (NBA) is the world's premier professional basketball league [62] and one of the major professional
sports leagues of North America. It contains 30 teams (29 teams in the U.S. and 1 in Canada) that play an 82-game season from October
to June. After the regular season, eight teams from each conference compete in the playoffs for the Larry O'Brien Championship Trophy.
Professional basketball is most followed in cities where there are no other sports teams in the four major professional leagues, such as in
the case of the Oklahoma City Thunder, [63] the Sacramento Kings, the San Antonio Spurs, the Memphis Grizzlies, or the Portland Trail
Blazers.
NBA began in 1946 with the formation of the Basketball Association of America (BAA), which merged with the National Basketball
League (NBL) in 1949 to create the NBA. The league initially faced challenges related to finances and public interest. However, the
1950s saw the rise of George Mikan, a dominant center for the Minneapolis Lakers, whose success helped establish the league's
credibility. In the 1960s, the NBA gained wider popularity, driven by the fierce rivalry between the Boston Celtics, led by Bill Russell,
and the Los Angeles Lakers, featuring stars like Jerry West and Elgin Baylor.
The Women's National Basketball Association (WNBA) is the premier professional women's basketball league in the United States,
founded in 1996. The league consists of 12 teams and runs from May to September, with playoffs to determine the champion. Notable
players include Diana Taurasi, Sue Bird, Lisa Leslie, and Maya Moore. Although historically lower-paying than the NBA, the WNBA has
seen improvements in player salaries and sponsorships in recent years. Many players also compete overseas during the off-season to
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sports_in_the_United_States
9/30
6/17/25, 10:30 AM
Sports in the United States Wikipedia
supplement their income. The league features a blend of American and international talent, with players
from countries like Australia, Bosnia, and Canada making significant contributions. The WNBA has
played a key role in promoting women's professional sports in the U.S. and continues to grow in
popularity.
Baseball
Baseball and a variant, softball, are popular participatory sports in the U.S. Baseball was the first
professional sport in the United States. [64][65][66] The highest level of baseball in the U.S. and the world
is Major League Baseball. There are a total of 30 MLB teams. The World Series of Major League Baseball
is the culmination of the sport's postseason each October. It is played between the winner of each of the
two leagues, the American League and the National League, and the winner is determined through a
best-of-seven playoff.
Chicago Bulls Michael Jordan
and Phil Jackson 1997
The New York Yankees are noted for having won more titles than any other U.S. major professional
sports franchise. The Yankees' chief rivals, the Boston Red Sox, also enjoy a huge following in Boston
and throughout New England. The Philadelphia Phillies of the National League are the oldest
continuous, one-name, one-city franchise in all of professional American sports, [67] and enjoy a fanbase
renowned for their rabid support of their team throughout Philadelphia and the Delaware Valley, and
13
have famously been dubbed as the "Meanest Fans in America" [68]
Many players and analysts
have called Stephen Curry the
Every four years in March, the World Baseball Classic is held, which is the national team game, the most
greatest shooter in NBA
popular baseball national team game. [69] In the 20th century, MLB became a defining part of American
history. [58]
culture. The century began with the formation of the American League in 1901, creating a two-league
system with the National League. The first World Series was held in 1903. The Black Sox Scandal of
1919, in which several Chicago White Sox players were accused of fixing the World Series, led to the
creation of the Commissioner of Baseball role to enforce stricter oversight. The 1920s and 1930s were
marked by the dominance of Babe Ruth, whose power hitting changed the way the game was played, and
the Yankees became a dominant force in baseball. In 1947, Jackie Robinson broke the color barrier,
becoming the first African American player in MLB, marking a pivotal moment in both sports and civil
rights. The 1950s and 1960s saw MLB expand with the relocation of teams like the Los Angeles Dodgers
and San Francisco Giants to California, while stars like Mickey Mantle, Joe DiMaggio, and Willie Mays
became household names. The 1970s brought the rise of the Cincinnati Reds' Big Red Machine, and the
1980s and 1990s saw the league's financial growth and the rise of free agency. Despite the 1994 strike
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sports_in_the_United_States,
10/30